NE-1027: Capturing metrics and telemetry using routes and shards (#51555)
openshift/openshift-docs: release_notes/ocp-4-12-release-notes.adoc

[id="ocp-4-12-developer-perspective"]
==== Developer Perspective

> * With this update, you can export your application in the ZIP file format to another project or cluster using the *Export application* option on the *+Add* page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* With this update, you can export your application in the ZIP file format to another project or cluster by using the *Export application* option on the *+Add* page.
```
See the ISG: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage

Author: acked

In {product-title} 4.12, the External DNS Operator modifies the format of the ExternalDNS wildcard TXT records on AzureDNS. The External DNS Operator replaces the asterisk with `any` in ExternalDNS wildcard TXT records. You must avoid the ExternalDNS wildcard A and CNAME records having `any` leftmost subdomain because this might cause a conflict.

[id="ocp-4-12-nw-metrics-telemetry"]
==== Capturing metrics and telemetry using routes and shards

In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard` metric. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent to {product-title} via telemetry.

.Metrics sent via telemetry

[cols="1,1,1,1",options="header"]
|===

> | Routes per shard | Name | Recording rule expression | Description

Author: Addressed

| Minimum Routes per Shard
| `cluster:route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard:min`
| `min(route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard)`

> | Gives the minimum value of Routes per Shard

Author: Addressed

| Maximum Routes per Shard
| `cluster:route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard:max`
| `max(route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard)`

> | Gives the Maximum value of Routes per Shard

Author: Addressed

| Average Routes per Shard
| `cluster:route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard:avg`
| `avg(route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard)`

> | Gives the average value of Routes per Shard.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Tracks the average value of the `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard` metric
```

Author: Addressed

In {product-title} 4.12, the External DNS Operator modifies the format of the ExternalDNS wildcard TXT records on AzureDNS. The External DNS Operator replaces the asterisk with `any` in ExternalDNS wildcard TXT records. You must avoid the ExternalDNS wildcard A and CNAME records having `any` leftmost subdomain because this might cause a conflict.

[id="ocp-4-12-nw-metrics-telemetry"]

> ==== Capturing metrics and telemetry using routes and shards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Capturing metrics and telemetry associated with the use of routes and shards
```

Author: Addressed

> In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard` metric. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent to {product-title} via telemetry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The metric's label `name` gives the name of the shards. This metric gives the total number of routes admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent via telemetry.
```

Author: Addressed

> In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The label of metric `name` specifies the name of shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent to {product-title} via telemetry.

Reviewer 2: A little re-wording and formatting. Otherwise, lgtm.

```suggestion
In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a new metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The `name` label of the metric specifies the name of the shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard.

The following metrics are sent via telemetry.
```

Author: acked

> In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The label of metric `name` specifies the name of shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent to {product-title} via telemetry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The label of metric `name` specifies the name of shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent to {product-title} using telemetry.
```

Author: acked

> In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The label of metric `name` specifies the name of shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent to {product-title} via telemetry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The label of metric `name` specifies the name of shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent to {product-title} using telemetry.
```

Author: acked

> In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The label of metric `name` specifies the name of shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent to {product-title} via telemetry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The label of metric `name` specifies the name of shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent to {product-title} using telemetry.
```

Author: acked

> In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a new metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The `name` label of the metric specifies the name of the shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard. The following metrics are sent to {product-title} by using telemetry.

Reviewer 2: @xenolinux you missed the suggestion for the last line as per this comment (https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/51555#discussion_r997067884)

```suggestion
In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a new metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The `name` label of the metric specifies the name of the shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard.

The following metrics are sent through telemetry.
```

Author: acked

> .Metrics sent via telemetry

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Metrics sent through telemetry
```
See the ISG: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage.
According to the word usage list, 'via' might work in this case, but suggesting an alternate word.

Author: acked

[cols="1,1,1",options="header"]
|===
| Name | Recording rule expression | Description

| `cluster:route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard:min`
| `min(route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard)`
| Tracks the minimum number of routes admitted by any of the shards

| `cluster:route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard:max`
| `max(route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard)`
| Tracks the maximum number of routes admitted by any of the shards

| `cluster:route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard:avg`
| `avg(route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard)`
| Tracks the average value of the `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard` metric

| `cluster:route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard:median`
| `quantile(0.5, route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard)`

> | Tracks the median number of routes admitted by any of the shards

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Tracks the median value of the `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard` metric
```

Author: Addressed

In {product-title} 4.12, the External DNS Operator modifies the format of the ExternalDNS wildcard TXT records on AzureDNS. The External DNS Operator replaces the asterisk with `any` in ExternalDNS wildcard TXT records. You must avoid the ExternalDNS wildcard A and CNAME records having `any` leftmost subdomain because this might cause a conflict.

[id="ocp-4-12-nw-metrics-telemetry"]
==== Capturing metrics and telemetry associated with the use of routes and shards

In {product-title} 4.12, the Cluster Ingress Operator exports a new metric named `route_metrics_controller_routes_per_shard`. The `name` label of the metric specifies the name of the shards. This metric gives the total number of routes that are admitted by each shard.

The following metrics are sent through telemetry.

> .Metrics sent through telemetry
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.Metrics sent through telemetry
```

Even if this looks like it works, AsciiDoc documentation recommends that title blocks appear immediately before whatever they're describing. Do you want to change this before I merge? @xenolinux

Author: acked
